%{
  title: "The files are in the computer",
  author: "Samuel Willis",
  tags: ~w(projects booklearning smaht learning),
  description: "Learning about things that maybe I should know already but now I definitely will.",
  published: false
}
---
As AI dawns on the software industry (and world) it has consumed much of my
experimentation, learning, and career growth. 
Tilting my growth towards learning about this new tool, its capabilities, and
attempting to stay astride of a rapidly changing landscape.

Much of this experimentation has centered around leveraging AI to stay
competitive in what is increasingly reported as a hostile job market. 
This, frankly, has come at the cost of seeking to further my own domain
knowledge and expertise.

In my experience the focus on robot herding and ensuring reliable output has
placed the spotlight on my ability to think through a high level plan, gather
any necessary context or guidelines, write up a set of steps, and send it into
the machine.
I think I'm pretty okay at this and it's a huge part of being a Software
Engineer.

However, another huge part of what drew me to this career was solving problems. 
Not just through thought but action and implementation.
I find a lot of learning through doing, even if that doing is rooted in applying
smarter people's thoughts to whatever I'm seeking to solve.

There's enjoyment in doing and understanding.

And so, this is the beginning of a (hopefully monthly) series where I choose
something I want to understand and learn about it. 
I'll do a small project with it. 
And I'll write about it.

All manually.
