%{
  title: "Fly.io, LiveView, and custom domains ",
  author: "Samuel Willis",
  tags: ~w(projects elixir phoenix livebook fly.io deployments networking),
  description: "How to configure a Fly.io deployed Phoenix LiveView application with a
  custom domain",
  published: true
}
---
# Fly.io + Custom Domains + LiveView configurations

Getting a basic Phoenix application deployed on Fly.io is dead simple if you
follow [Elixir getting started
guide](https://fly.io/docs/elixir/getting-started/).

However, if you end up configuring a custom domain for your application, the
configuration for the application prevents Websocket connections when you visit
the application at the custom domain.

Thankfully resolving this is dead simple and there's several approaches you can
take!

## Option 1: Update `fly.toml`

The default configuration for a Fly.io deployed application uses the `PHX_HOST`
env variable to build the `url` for the application's Endpoint.  Combined with
the Endpoint defaulting to `check_origin: true` it results in all connections
with an origin differing from the configured `url` to be blocked.

Changing the `PHX_HOST` value in your `fly.toml` to be the custom domain and
deploying the change will allow connections from the custom domain.  This will
prevent any other domains from connecting successfully, including the Fly
provisioned domain, but is simple and quick.

## Option 2: Adjust the Endpoint's `check_origin` configuration

Adjusting the Endpoint's `check_origin` will allow specifying a list of domains
that will be permitted to make websocket connections.

As per [the
docs](https://hexdocs.pm/phoenix/Phoenix.Endpoint.html#socket/3-common-configuration)
the `check_origin` can be set to a list of explicitly allowed origins.

So doing an update like so will allow both the Fly provisioned url and the
custom domain.

```elixir
# config/runtime.exs
host = System.get_env("PHX_HOST") || "example.com"
port = String.to_integer(System.get_env("PORT") || "443")

config :your_application, YourApplicationWeb.Endpoint,
    check_origin: [
        # Allow the Fly provisioned url to connect
        "https://#{host}:#{port}",
        # Allow your custom domain to connect at any subdomain
        # or at the apex.
        "//yourcustomdomain.com:#{port}",
    ],
    url: [host: host, port: port, scheme: "https"],
    # ...
```

This is a tidy solution that explicitly defines the allowed URLs but requires
manual updates any time you wish to provision a new domain.

## Option 3: Allow any origins that match the current request's host

A third option allows for the addition of any custom domains without needing
configuration or code changes.

This requires adjusting the Endpoint's configuration `check_origin` as
well as the `force_ssl` option.

Setting the Endpoint's `check_origin: :conn` will accept any origin matching the
request connection's host, port, and scheme.

This can be combined with the `force_ssl` option to ensure the correct handling
of Fly provisioned domains as well as custom domains (and ensure SSL is used as
an added bonus).

Similar to option 2, the `config/runtime.exs` needs updating and, since the
`force_ssl` is a compile time option, the `config/prod.exs`.
There's a couple settings to update:

* `hsts: true`: declares the site is accessible via HTTPS only.
* `host: nil`: allows dynamic redirects to the host of the request
  enforcing HTTPS on the fly domain and any custom domains added
* `rewrite_on: [...]`: specifies the headers to use when rewriting http
  to https

Putting this all together results in the following:

```elixir
# config/runtime.exs
host = System.get_env("PHX_HOST") || "example.com"
port = String.to_integer(System.get_env("PORT") || "443")

config :your_application, YourApplicationWeb.Endpoint,
    check_origin: :conn,
    url: [host: host, port: port, scheme: "https"],
    # ...
```

```elixir
# config/prod.exs
config :your_application, YourApplicationWeb.Endpoint,
  force_ssl: [
    hsts: true,
    host: nil,
    rewrite_on: [:x_forwarded_host, :x_forwarded_port, :x_forwarded_proto]
  ],
  # ...
```

## Summary

Deploying Phoenix applications on Fly.io is a breeze but there are certain
things, like adding a custom domain, that can cause small issues when deployed
with the default configuration.

Hopefully this article illustrates how to get websocket connections working with
a custom domain on Fly.io.

If you have alternatives, or adjustments, or any thoughts at all, feel free to
[open an issue in this website's
repo](https://github.com/SamuelWillis/samuelwillis.dev/issues).
